Docs: update API access for new token type (#1958)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/user_guide/token.mdx

---
id: api-token
title: How to create API Tokens
---

import newTokenImage from '/img/admin_create_token_form.png';

> In order to connect to Unleash clients will need an API token to grant access. A client SDK will need to token with "client privileges", which allows them to fetch feature toggle configuration and post usage metrics back.

Reviewer: "to token"? is this ok?

## Create API Token {#create-api-token}

### Permissions {#permissions}

<!-- TODO: update? -->

To create an API token you'll need the CREATE_API_TOKEN permission level, at the time of writing (v4.0.0), this level is only set for instance admins.

Eventually one should be able to customize which users has access to create tokens.

All users are able to see tokens with CLIENT level access, but only instance admins can see tokens with ADMIN level access.

### Step-by-step {#step-by-step}

> #### 1. Select `Configure` and `API Access` from the main menu {#step-1}

Reviewer: "API access"

This page is accessible from `/admin/api` url. ![API access in navigation](/img/admin_configure_api.png)

<br />

> #### 2. Click `Add new API key` at the top right of the page {#step-2}

Reviewer: "New API token"

> If you already have tokens, you will be able to see keys in the table below. ![Add token](/img/admin_new_api_key_button.png)

Reviewer: to see "them listed" instead keys?

> #### 1. Select `Configure` and `API access` from the main menu {#step-1}
> 
> This page is accessible from `/admin/api` url. ![API access in navigation](/img/admin_configure_api.png)
> 
> <br />
> 
> #### 2. Click `New API token` at the top right of the page {#step-2}
> 
> If you already have tokens, you will be able to see them listed in the table below. ![Add token](/img/admin_new_api_key_button.png)
> 
> <br />
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Navigate to the API token creation form {#step-1}

Navigate to the _API access_ page in the admin UI (available at the URL `/admin/api`). Use the navigation menu item "Configure" and select "API access".

![The admin UI navigation "Configure" submenu with the API access item highlighted.](/img/admin_configure_api.png)

On the API access page, use the "New API token" button to navigate to the token creation form.

![The API access page with the "New API token" button highlighted.](/img/admin_new_api_key_button.png)
```

> #### 3. Fill and submit new token form {#step-3}

Reviewer: If we keep this title maybe should be: "Fill and submit API token form"

Or: "Create API token options"

<div style={{ display: 'flex', gap: '1rem', flexWrap: 'wrap' }}>
<div><img src={newTokenImage} alt="Form for new token" style={{ maxWidth: '414px' }} /></div>
<div style={{ flexShrink: 1, flexGrow: 1, flexBasis: 0, minWidth: '320px' }}>

##### 3.1. Username

> Does not have to be unique, but it should be if you need to recognize the key in audit logs.

Reviewer: its "key" or "token" ?

:::

- 3.2.A. **CLIENT**<br/>
This type will work with [Server-side SDKs](/sdks#server-side-sdks) or with [Unleash Proxy](/sdks/unleash-proxy).

- 3.2.B. **FRONTEND**<br/>
New in _Unleash v14.16_. Select this option if you'd like to connect client-side SDK directly, without setting up Proxy.
More details in [Direct client-side API](/topics/frontend-api) guide.

- 3.2.C. **ADMIN**<br/>
Only available to instance administrators. Needed if you're going to be using the admin interface via CURL, or if you intend to write custom integration or automation.
Everything you see in the UI can be automated with an API requests, see [API documentation](/api).

##### 3.3. Projects

ADMIN token will always grant access to all projects. Other types can be restricted to one or multiple projects.

##### 3.4. Environment

CLIENT and FRONTEND tokens are scoped to one selected environment. If you need to connect many environments, create multiple keys.

</div>
</div>
<br/>

#### 4. Copy token secret and start using API access

You should now have token secret that you can use in authorization header. For CURL that would be `-H "Authorization: <yoursecrethere>"`.

> If you are using SDKs, set correct API URL. For CLIENT and ADMIN keys it's `<YOUR-UNLEASH-INSTANCE-URL>/api` but it's `<YOUR-UNLEASH-INSTANCE-URL>/api/frontend` for FRONTEND ("Proxy SDKs") access.

Reviewer: its "key" or "token" ?
